PROJECT 10073 RECORD

1. DATE - TIME GROUP: 26 August 65  27/0530Z
2. LOCATION: Nebraska Area
3. SOURCE: Military
10. CONCLUSION: A/C
    One object appearing as three lights through a theodolite. Data consistent with A/C evaluation.
4. NUMBER OF OBJECTS: Three (One)
5. LENGTH OF OBSERVATION: 2 Minutes
6. TYPE OF OBSERVATION: Ground-Visual (Theodolite)
7. COURSE: East
8. PHOTOS: [ ] Yes [X] No
9. PHYSICAL EVIDENCE: [ ] Yes [X] No
11. BRIEF SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS: Object were observed with the aid of a theodolite (equivalent to a 40 power telescope). Object appeared to be twice the size of a pinhead, appeared in the middle of the Big Dipper and moved on course as indicated. When seen through the theodolite, object became three white objects grouped together. Objects disappeared in the East. No sound.

FORM FTD SEP 63 0-329 (TDE) Previous editions of this form may be used.

- page 1 -

HEADQUARTERS [FRANCIS E. WARREN AIR FORCE BASE, WYOMING]
FTD 900COP

20 SEP 1965

SUBJECT: Unidentified Flying Objects (UFO)
TO: AFSC (FTD)

1. Reference AFR 200-2, as amended. The following described unidentified flying objects are an addition to our report of 6 August 1965.

2. Description of Objects: The reported objects are plotted on the attached maps with descriptions as referenced in subparagraphs below:

a. Reported by civilian guard at Sioux Army Depot to Golf Launch Control facility, where Air Force personnel observed with binoculars. The first sighting began at 2145 local time, and the second sighting at 2220 local time. The latter sighting consisted of two objects moving approximately one mile apart. Objects were the size of the North Star, pale yellow to white, and moving rapidly about 30 degrees above the horizon. See plot number 1.

b. Reported from Hotel launch facility and observed by nine military personnel with the aid of binoculars. See plot number 2.
(1) The first sighting was of an object the size of a star which appeared to the Southeast and traveled Westward, disappearing to the Southwest. Object was at 20,000 feet, very fast, and reappeared at four 15 minute intervals on the same course.
(2) The second sightings were to the North of the observation point. Object was slightly less than the size of a pea but appeared slightly larger with each successive sighting. Resembled a luminous glow, white to yellowish in color, semi-circular in shape, and the last sighting appeared to have a trailing white glow. On four occasions, there was a roaring jet-like noise at some distance behind. Notice some similarity to following report on same night by another group.

c. Objects reported by three airmen of a Geodetic Survey Team, who observed them with the aid of a theodolite (equivalent to a 40 power telescope). See plot number 3.
(1) Object appeared to be twice the size of a pinhead, appeared in the middle of the Big Dipper and moved on course as indicated. When seen through the theodolite, object became three white objects grouped as shown on plot.

- page 2 -

(2) Object again appeared in same location but on the next five successive observations flew a straight course and disappeared to the East. At first, object became three white objects, but as it moved Eastward the two rear whites disappeared and there were now six red, green, and white lights as shown on plot.

d. Object sighted and observed through binoculars by Staff Sergeant and two neighbors, at 1950 local time. Object, oblong, about the size of a saucer, moved with an up and down motion, white in color with a flashing light. Local weather balloons are launched at 10AM and 10PM, so this object is eliminated as a weather balloon. Object was also observed on 31 August and 3 September. See plot number 4.

e. Object was observed to the North of Cheyenne by group of eight young civilians, whose hobby is stargazing with a 50/100 telescope. Object appeared low on horizon, moving slowly Westward, disappearing somewhat higher above horizon. There were three objects, size of a dime, close together with red, white, and blue lights. See plot number 4.

f. Object first sighted by personnel at Golf, who informed two members of the Target Alignment Team at a nearby Launch Site. The latter observed the object with a theodolite and identified it as Jupiter, due to observation of the three moons of that planet.

3. The members of the Target Alignment Team and Geodetic Survey personnel seem to be fairly well trained in astronomy and can present a very accurate description of objects and movements.

4. The weather in all sightings was clear with occasional clouds.

5. Report was compiled by Major Elva D. Brown, Intelligence Staff Officer, with 19 years of military experience.

6. Attached are four plots showing locations of observers and directions of movement.

7. Request information as to whether this or the previous report may be released to the public.

FOR THE COMMANDER
WILLARD R. GILBERT, Colonel, USAF
Commander, 809th Combat Spt Gp
4 Atch
1 - 4 Maps

- page 3 -

[NON-TEXT PAGE: topographic map of Nebraska/Wyoming/Colorado area showing missile launch control center locations marked with letters; caption DCASPP (L.A. Calif.) 62-19990]

- page 4 -

[NON-TEXT PAGE: hand-drawn flight path diagram over Wyoming/Cheyenne/Colorado/Nebraska area; date "26 August 65"; "Average flight time 2 minutes"; "Letters indicate missile launch control centers"; "went above cloud bank"; location H (Nebraska) boxed as primary observation point]

- page 5 -

[NON-TEXT PAGE: hand-drawn flight path diagram, same map area; partially illegible annotations]

- page 6 -

[NON-TEXT PAGE: hand-drawn flight path diagram, same map area; largely illegible annotations]

- page 7 -
