PROJECT 10073 RECORD

1. DATE - TIME GROUP
20 Mar 67  21/0050Z

2. LOCATION
Hamtramck, Michigan  (2 Witnesses)

3. SOURCE
Civilian

4. NUMBER OF OBJECTS
Two

5. LENGTH OF OBSERVATION
4 Seconds

6. TYPE OF OBSERVATION
Ground-Visual

7. COURSE
W - E

8. PHOTOS
[ ] Yes
[X] No

9. PHYSICAL EVIDENCE
[ ] Yes
[X] No

10. CONCLUSION
Astro (METEOR) [handwritten: MD]

11. BRIEF SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS
Object was white about like a star.  Object was bullet shaped, except for the vapor trail.  Object disappeared almost immediately.

FORM
FTD SEP 63 0-329 (TDE)  Previous editions of this form may be used.

- page 1 -

Page 7

34.  Date you completed this questionnaire:    17    April    1967
                                               Day   Month   Year

35.  Information which you feel pertinent and which is not adequately covered in the specific points of the questionnaire or a narrative explanation of your sighting.

It was going at a terrific speed.

- page 2 -

[redacted]
Hamtramck, Mich.
48212

Dear Sir,
I am 12 years old and have read many books on UFOs and would like to further study them.  I have had the following experiences.
Monday, March 20, 1967, while stepping outside our front door facing south, I saw 2 lights appear in front of [something] that looked exactly like [something].  The 2 lights were visible only about 2 seconds because of their fantastic speed.  The 2 lights were from West to East.  This could have been a reflection from our front door but it would have nothing to reflect [on].
A few years ago (I do not know the exact date, only that it was in the summer), my boyfriend and I were watching stars in my back yard when we saw a light going from West to East.  At first we [thought] it was a jet, but when it was more visible we saw that it was a fireball, it looked something like this: [diagram with vapor/tail]
Flames were shooting all over the fireball and sheets of fire were also seen.  When it looked as if it were over our house it made a 90° turn and disappeared.  It was visible for about 20 seconds.  I can not remember if any sound was made.
I would appreciate it if you would send me a copy of Project Blue Book if it is possible.  You do not have to check into these sightings because I do not think they are too good.
Yours truly,
[signature redacted]

[handwritten: SEND INFO]

- page 3 -

[handwritten: Astro(METEOR)]                          [handwritten: 20 Mar 67]

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS FOREIGN TECHNOLOGY DIVISION (AFSC)
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, OHIO 45433

REPLY TO
ATTN OF:  TDET/UFO                                14 April 1967

SUBJECT:  UFO Observation, 20 Mar 67

TO:  [redacted]
     Hamtramck, Michigan  48212

Reference your unidentified observation.  The information which we have received is not sufficient for a scientific evaluation.  Request you complete the attached FTD Form 164 and return it in the envelope provided.  Thank you for reporting your observation to the Air Force.

JAMES C. MANATT, Colonel, USAF               1 Atch
Director of Technology and Subsystems        FTD Form 164 w/envelope

TDET/UFO OFFICIAL FILE COPY

- page 4 -

U.S. AIR FORCE TECHNICAL INFORMATION

1.  When did you see the object?
20th  Monday  March  1967

2.  Time of day:  7  Hours  50  Minutes
(Circle One):  A.M.  or  P.M.

3.  Time Zone:
(Circle One):  (a.) Eastern                    (Circle One):  a. Daylight Saving
               b.  Central                                    (b.) Standard
               c.  Mountain
               d.  Pacific
               e.  Other

4.  Where were you when you saw the object?
[redacted]                    Hamtramck          Michigan
Nearest Postal Address         City or Town       State or County

5.  How long was object in sight?  (Total Duration)
Hours              Minutes            4  Seconds

b.  Fairly certain

5.1  How was time in sight determined?    Estimated very accurately.

5.2  Was object in sight continuously?    Yes  [checked]    No          Counted seconds.

6.  What was the condition of the sky?

DAY                              NIGHT
a.  Bright                    (b.)  Bright
b.  Cloudy                         b.  Cloudy

FORM FTD OCT 62 164

- page 5 -

Page 2

8.  IF you saw the object at NIGHT, what did you notice concerning the STARS and MOON?
8.1  STARS: d. Don't remember
8.2  MOON: b. Dull moonlight

9.  CLOUDS: a. Clear sky;   WEATHER: a. Dry

10.  The object appeared: d. As a light

11.  Brighter than stars?: c. About the same

12.  The edges of the object were: a. Fuzzy or blurred

13.  Did the object:                               (Circle One for each question)
a.  Appear to stand still at any time?            Yes    (No)   Don't know
b.  Suddenly speed up and rush away at any time?  Yes    (No)   Don't know
c.  Break up into parts or explode?               Yes    (No)   Don't know
d.  Give off smoke?                               Yes    (No)   Don't know
e.  Change brightness?                            Yes    (No)   Don't know
f.  Change shape?                                 Yes    (No)   Don't know
g.  Flash or flicker?                             (Yes)   No    Don't know
h.  Disappear and reappear?                       Yes    (No)   Don't know

- page 6 -

Page 3

14.  Did the object disappear while you were watching it?  If so, how?    [blank]

15.  Did the object move behind something at any time, particularly a cloud?
(Circle One):    Yes    (No)    Don't Know.

16.  Did the object move in front of something at any time, particularly a cloud?
(Circle One):    Yes    (No)    Don't Know.

17.  Tell in a few words the following things about the object:
a.  Sound    No sound
b.  Color    White, about like a star.

18.  Angular size:  The object would have covered up about 7 wooden match sticks.  There were 2 objects, so each one was about 7 match sticks.

19.  Draw a picture that will show the shape of the object or objects.
[Drawing: Two bullet-shaped objects with vapor trails, traveling East. Label reads "sort of vapor trail. They were more Bullet Shape except for the Vapor."]
Direction: from South/West toward East, arrow pointing E (West to East)

- page 7 -

Page 4

20.  Do you think you can estimate the speed of the object?
(Circle One)    Yes    (No)

21.  Do you think you can estimate how far away from you the object was?
(Circle One)    (Yes)    No
IF you answered YES, then how far away would you say it was?    10 feet

22.  Where were you located when you saw the object?
(c.) Outdoors

23.  Were you: b. In the residential section of a city?

25.  Did you observe the object through any of the following?
a.  Eyeglasses    Yes    (No)
b.  Sun glasses   Yes    (No)
c.  Windshield    Yes    (No)
d.  Window glass  Yes    (No)
e.  Binoculars    Yes    (No)
f.  Telescope     Yes    (No)
g.  Theodolite    Yes    (No)

26.  Common object:  It would look like a marble that was very bright, streaking across the sky with a vapor trail that would disappear almost immediately.

- page 8 -

Page 5

27.  [Elevation sketch: B at about 5° above horizon (very low when last seen); compass shows A at West, B at East]

28.  [Path diagram: east / B ← 4seconds ← A west / North; straight line west to east]

29.  IF there was MORE THAN ONE object, then how many were there?    2
[Drawing: two bullet-shaped objects separated by "3 inches" (angular), traveling South to North]

- page 9 -

Page 6

30.  Have you ever seen this, or a similar object before.  If so give date or dates and location.
Once saw a huge Red and white fireball.  I do not know anything else because I thought it was a comet.

31.  Was anyone else with you at the time you saw the object?  (Circle One)    (Yes)    No
31.1  IF you answered YES, did they see the object too?  (Circle One)    Yes    (No)
31.2  Please list their names and addresses:    My Father, same address.

32.  Please give the following information about yourself:
NAME    [redacted]
ADDRESS  [redacted]    Hamtramck    D  Michigan
TELEPHONE NUMBER    [redacted]    AGE  12    SEX  Male

Indicate any additional information about yourself, including any special experience, which might be pertinent.
Please do not bring reporters over to my house.  My mother does not want that to happen.  It would be best to keep in contact by mail.

33.  When and to whom did you report that you had seen the object?
9    March    1967    Washington  D.C.

- page 10 -
